# Coin-Change
This was a java project that I created as a part of my final for my AP Computer Science class.

For this program, I planned to create an algorithm which would check for the best combination of coins to add up to the amount. Since I knew I’d be checking and adjusting the value of the amount, I created another value called tempVal and assigned the amount value to it. The program enters a while loop allowing the loop to access each coin until there are no more coins left to check. I created a tempMax and mod amount (ma), initializing them to 0 and 1 respectively. This was necessary because the program enters another while loop while ma is not equal to 0, because the loop only breaks if the coins add up to the exact amount with no leftover, and otherwise if the while is needed to break because of a fail. The for loop used checks how many coins are needed to add up to the amount, with the largest coin being the coin that r is set to. Otherwise, the if statements work with the boolean fail to work as a safety net for when the amount can not be made up by the coins, or when the amount is too little for the coins. After the inside while loop breaks, tempVal is given the original amount again and r is decreased so that the method can work with the next combination of coins, starting with the coin 1 position to the left in the array list coins. After all possibilities have been tried, the boolean comes to use as if fail is true, the program returns 1, and then returns the minimum amount. I checked this program in the main method with several different array lists, one which had 2 possibilities but with one being more efficient than the other as it uses less coins, one which should output -1, and one which should output 0. 
